**Title:** Blood Cell Count and Transcriptome Profile Associates with Schizophrenia (SCZ) Symptom Severity: Insights from a Pilot Study of Indian Population

**Aim:** Association of peripheral blood parameters with the symptom severity in SCZ in the Indian population

**Data type:** RNA-seq data of SCZ and healthy control (HC) participants

**About the script:** The raw RNA-seq files were processed using the scripts (https://github.com/satyajeetkhare/RNASeq_HISAT2_Gencode_hg38). The fastq files are obtained from INDA-CA (INCARP000275 and  INCARP000309). The phenodata information can be obtained on request. The raw count matrix is used for differential gene expression analysis and Weighted gene coexpression analysis (WGCNA). The scripts are as provided above, and the details of each script are mentioned below. 

1- Differential gene expression: The DEGs used for filtering the hub genes were obtained through this script. Prepare Phenodata 1 consisting of columns: Sample_ID, Age, Sex, Batch, Diagnosis, Neutrophils, Basophils, Eosinophils, Lymphocytes, and Monocytes. The raw count matrix (Raw_count1) used here is obtained directly after processing of raw fastq files. The pre-processing of Raw_count1 is performed in this stage to obtain filtered Raw_count2, which is used for DEGs as well as WGCNA.

2- Partial Correlation: The correlation between hemogram and the PANSS scores was performed using this script. For the initial analysis a single file (Phenodata 2) is generated using data of only SCZ participants. The columns for Phenodata 2 are as follows: Sample_ID, Positive, Negative, General, Anergia, Thought Disturbance, Activation, Paranoid, Depression, Composite, Total, Neutrophils, Basophils, Eosinophils, Lymphocytes, Monocytes, Hemoglobin, RBC count, Platelet, NLR, PLR, MLR, Tobacco, Alcohol, Cannabis, Sex, Age, and Duration of Disorder. The next file (Phenodata 3) for filtration is generated using data from both SCZ and HC samples. The columns for Phenodata 3 are as follows: Sample_ID, Groups, Neutrophils, Basophils, Eosinophils, Lymphocytes, Monocytes, Hemoglobin, RBC count, Platelet, NLR, PLR, MLR.

3- WGCNA: The correlation of Transcriptome profile with the external trait (PANSS scores) is performed using this script. The filtered raw count matrix (raw_count2) is used in this step. The Phenodata 4 for this step contains the following columns: Sample ID, Batch, Sex, Age, Diagnosis, Duration, Neutrophils, Basophils, Eosinophils, Lymphocytes, Monocytes, Tobacco, Alcohol, and Cannabis. The adjustment of the raw count matrix for batch, age, sex, duration of disorder, and hemogram is performed. The external trait data (Phenodata 5) is  Sample_ID, Positive, Negative, General, Anergia, Thought Disturbance, Activation, Paranoid, Depression, Composite, Total, Neutrophils, Basophils, Eosinophils, Lymphocytes, Monocytes, Tobacco, Alcohol, Cannabis, Sex, Age, Batch, and Duration of Disorder. Further, the correlation of the transcriptome (raw counts) with the external trait (symptom severity) is performed.

Contact: vineshkamble23@gmail.com
